Updated readme with various newer information and cleanups (#71)
cyberark/conjur-api-java: README.md

To do so from the source using Maven, following the setup steps below:

1. Create new maven project using an IDE of your choice
2. If you are using Maven to manage your project's dependencies, include the following
   Conjur API dependency snippet in your `pom.xml` under `<project>`/`<dependencies>`:

```xml
    <dependency>
      <groupId>net.conjur.api</groupId>
      <artifactId>conjur-api</artifactId>
      <version>2.2.0</version>
    <dependency>
```

_NOTE:_ Depending on what version of the Java compiler you have, you may need to update
the version. At this time, the `{version}` most compatible is `1.8`:

```xml
  <properties>
    <maven.compiler.source>{version}</maven.compiler.source>
    <maven.compiler.target>{version}</maven.compiler.target>
  </properties>
```

3. Run `mvn install -DskipTests` in this repo's directory to install Conjur API into your
   local maven repository.

### Using the Jarfile

If generating a JAR is preferred, you can build the library locally and add the dependency
to the project manually by following the setup steps below:

1. Clone the Conjur Java API repo locally: `git clone {repo}`
2. Go into the cloned repository with `cd conjur-api-java`

> 3. Run `mvn package -DskipTests to generate a JAR file. The output `.jar` files will be located

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run `mvn package -DskipTests` to generate a JAR file. The output `.jar` files will be located
```

   in the `target` directory of the repo

_NOTE:_ we ran `mvn package` without running the integration tests, since these require access

> to a Conjur instance. You can run the integration tests with mvn package once you finished with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to a Conjur instance. You can run the integration tests with mvn package once you finish
```

the configuration. For more information on how to run the tests, take a look at our
[Contributing](https://github.com/cyberark/conjur-api-java/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) guide.

> 4. Follow the steps outlined [here](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/library.html) for
>    information on how to add JAR files into the new app's project files using Intellij and
>    for Eclipse you can do:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Follow the steps outlined [here](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/library.html) to add the SDK
   JAR files into the new app's project files using Intellij. For Eclipse, you can do:
```

   `Right click project > Build Path > Configure Build Path > Library > Add External JARs`.

> 5. If you are working with the CLI, you can manually install the `.jar` into your Maven

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. If you are working with the Maven CLI, you can manually install the `.jar` into your Maven
```

>    repository by running the following but replacing `$VERSION` with the appropriate version
>    of the API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   repository by running the following (replacing `$VERSION` with the appropriate version
   of the API):
```

   ```sh-session
   $ mvn org.apache.maven.plugins:maven-install-plugin:2.5.2:install-file \
       -Dfile=/path/to/api/repo/target/conjur-api-$VERSION.jar

   $ # or

   $ mvn org.apache.maven.plugins:maven-install-plugin:2.5.2:install-file \
       -Dfile=/path/to/api/repo/target/conjur-api-$VERSION-with-dependencies.jar

>    $ or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ # or
```
not gonna lie this layout is weird but at least we should be consistent

Author: I split these up into individual code blocks too

       -DgroupId=net.conjur.api \
       -DartifactId=conjur-api \
       -Dversion=$VERSION \
       -Dpackaging=jar
   ```

## Configuration

Once the setup steps have been successfully run, we will now define the variables needed
to make the connection between the new app and Conjur. You can do this by setting
[environment variables](#environment-variables), [system properties](#system-properties),
or some combination of both.

_NOTE:_ System properties will override enviroment values when both are defined for a
variable.

### Environment Variables

In Conjur (both OSS and DAP), environment variables are mapped to configuration variables
by prepending `CONJUR_` to the all-caps name of the configuration variable. For example,
`appliance_url` is `CONJUR_APPLIANCE_URL`, `account` is `CONJUR_ACCOUNT` etc.

_NOTE:_ For ways to set credentials (for `CONJUR_AUTHN_LOGIN` and `CONJUR_AUTHN_API_KEY`
environment variables ONLY) in the app instead of environment variables, see the
[Authorization Examples](#authorization-examples) and/or [system properties](#system-properties)
section below.

> The following environment variables need to be included in the apps runtime environment in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following environment variables need to be included in the app's runtime environment in
```

Author: This is intentional. They don't _have_ to be included - they can be supplemented by system properties or inlined code

Reviewer: ok, updated with a qualifier and still want to get that apostrophe in :)

order use the Conjur API:

> - `CONJUR_APPLIANCE_URL` - Conjur endpoint (OSS/DAP) in URL format.

Reviewer: In the service broker we write this as:
```suggestion
- `CONJUR_APPLIANCE_URL` - the URL of the Conjur instance you are connecting to. When connecting to
   DAP configured for high availability, this should be the URL of the master load balancer (if performing read
   and write operations) or the URL of a follower load balancer (if performing read-only operations).
```

- `CONJUR_ACCOUNT` - Conjur account that you are connecting to. This value is set during Conjur deployment.
- `CONJUR_AUTHN_LOGIN` - User/host identity
- `CONJUR_AUTHN_API_KEY` - User/host API key

> - `CONJUR_AUTHN_URL` - (optional) Alternate authn endpoint. Default endpoint uses `<applianceUrl>/authn`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `CONJUR_AUTHN_URL` - (optional) Alternate authentication endpoint. Default endpoint uses `<applianceUrl>/authn`
```

> - `CONJUR_AUTHN_URL` - (optional) Alternate authn endpoint. Default endpoint uses `<applianceUrl>/authn`
>   for generic username and password/API key login flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `CONJUR_AUTHN_URL` - (optional) Alternate authentication endpoint. By default the client uses the standard
  `<applianceUrl>/authn` for generic username and API key login flow.
```

For example, you can specify the environment variables like so:

```sh-session
export CONJUR_APPLIANCE_URL=https://conjur.myorg.com/api
export CONJUR_ACCOUNT=myorg
export CONJUR_AUTHN_LOGIN=host/myhost.example.com
export CONJUR_AUTHN_API_KEY=sb0ncv1yj9c4w2e9pb1a2s
```

or you could provide these at runtime to your jar:
```sh-session
$ CONJUR_APPLIANCE_URL=https://conjur.myorg.com/api \
  CONJUR_ACCOUNT=myorg \
  CONJUR_AUTHN_LOGIN=host/myhost.example.com \
  CONJUR_AUTHN_API_KEY=sb0ncv1yj9c4w2e9pb1a2s \
  java -jar myConjurClient.jar
```
If you are using a host-based user like this example shows, you will need to add the host
to Conjur with the proper privileges in policy in order to know the appropriate
`CONJUR_AUTHN_LOGIN` and `CONJUR_AUTHN_API_KEY` values.

> For this _specific_ example, we will define the Java app as a host and grant permissions over

Reviewer: this example seems really out of place here. I see two options for it.
- does it add any value that makes it worth keeping? we could move it to a section with the other examples below (maybe before them?) as "Example workflow for setting up Conjur"
- can we scrap it altogether and just link out to our docs for more info on setting up and configuring conjur and loading policy?

Author: You make a good point - this whole example can be scrapped so I'll do that.

some variable. This variable will later hold a secret and we will show how to retrieve this
secret using the Conjur Java API once a connection is established. If you have a different use
case, you can use the below policy as the basis for another desired outcome. If a policy
already exists for your host, you can skip the next set of steps.

1. Make sure Conjur is running in the background and open the Conjur CLI.

   _NOTE:_ If using Docker: `docker-compose exec <NAME_OF_CLI_CONTAINER> bash`

2. Copy the following policy and substitute `<>`-enclosed variables accordingly, and
   save it as a `.yml` file.
   ```yaml

> - !policy

Reviewer: the content in the code block needs to be indented to render properly

Author: No longer relevant - example scrapped

follow these instructions for installation of the [OSS](https://docs.conjur.org/Latest/en/Content/OSS/Installation/Install_methods.htm)
and these for installation of [Enterprise/DAP](https://docs.cyberark.com/Product-Doc/OnlineHelp/AAM-DAP/Latest/en/Content/Deployment/platforms/platforms.html).

Once Conjur and the Conjur CLI are running in the background, you are ready to start
setting up your Java app to work with our Conjur Java API!

## Setup

### Using the Source Code

You can grab the library's dependencies from the source by using Maven **or** locally
by generating a JAR file and adding it to the project manually.

To do so from the source using Maven, following the setup steps below:

1. Create new maven project using an IDE of your choice
2. If you are using Maven to manage your project's dependencies, include the following
   Conjur API dependency snippet in your `pom.xml` under `<project>`/`<dependencies>`:

```xml
    <dependency>
      <groupId>net.conjur.api</groupId>
      <artifactId>conjur-api</artifactId>
      <version>2.2.0</version>
    <dependency>
```

_NOTE:_ Depending on what version of the Java compiler you have, you may need to update

> the version. At this time, the `{version}` most compatible is `1.8`:

Author: I don't know for sure to be honest - I update the wording to match as to what I _think_ it meant.

> the version. At this time, the `{version}` most compatible is `1.8`:

Reviewer 2: If neither of us knows what it means, I say remove the sentence.

> the version. At this time, the `{version}` most compatible is `1.8`:

Author: I got a good handle on what it means after some googling around - updated

```xml
  <properties>
    <maven.compiler.source>{version}</maven.compiler.source>
    <maven.compiler.target>{version}</maven.compiler.target>
  </properties>
```

3. Run `mvn install -DskipTests` in this repo's directory to install Conjur API into your
   local maven repository.

### Using the Jarfile

If generating a JAR is preferred, you can build the library locally and add the dependency
to the project manually by following the setup steps below:

1. Clone the Conjur Java API repo locally: `git clone {repo}`
2. Go into the cloned repository with `cd conjur-api-java`
3. Run `mvn package -DskipTests` to generate a JAR file. The output `.jar` files will be located
   in the `target` directory of the repo

> _NOTE:_ we ran `mvn package` without running the integration tests, since these require access

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_NOTE:_ the above command runs `mvn package` without running the integration tests, since these require access
```

to a Conjur instance. You can run the integration tests with mvn package once you finish
the configuration. For more information on how to run the tests, take a look at our
[Contributing](https://github.com/cyberark/conjur-api-java/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) guide.

> 4. Follow the steps outlined [here](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/library.html) to

Reviewer 2: Should the steps below actually be like 4a Intellij, 4b Eclipse and 4c Maven?

   $ mvn install:install-file -Dfile=/path/to/api/repo/target/conjur-api-$VERSION-with-dependencies.jar \
       -DgroupId=net.conjur.api \
       -DartifactId=conjur-api \
       -Dversion=$VERSION \
       -Dpackaging=jar
   ```

## Configuration

Once the setup steps have been successfully run, we will now define the variables needed
to make the connection between the new app and Conjur. You can do this by setting
[environment variables](#environment-variables), [system properties](#system-properties),
or some combination of both.

_NOTE:_ System properties will override enviroment values when both are defined for a
variable.

### Environment Variables

In Conjur (both OSS and DAP), environment variables are mapped to configuration variables
by prepending `CONJUR_` to the all-caps name of the configuration variable. For example,
`appliance_url` is `CONJUR_APPLIANCE_URL`, `account` is `CONJUR_ACCOUNT` etc.

_NOTE:_ For ways to set credentials (for `CONJUR_AUTHN_LOGIN` and `CONJUR_AUTHN_API_KEY`
environment variables ONLY) in the app instead of environment variables, see the
[Authorization Examples](#authorization-examples) and/or [system properties](#system-properties)

> section below.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure that I totally understand this note.  Can these credentials only be set via env variables?  Or do the linked headers only apply to setting them as env variables?  Could you make it a little clearer?

  read-only operations).
- `CONJUR_ACCOUNT` - Conjur account that you are connecting to. This value is set during Conjur deployment.
- `CONJUR_AUTHN_LOGIN` - User/host identity
- `CONJUR_AUTHN_API_KEY` - User/host API key
- `CONJUR_AUTHN_URL` - (optional) Alternate authentication endpoint. By default the client
  uses the standard `<applianceUrl>/authn` for generic username and API key login flow.

For example, you can specify the environment variables like so:

```sh-session
export CONJUR_APPLIANCE_URL=https://conjur.myorg.com/api
export CONJUR_ACCOUNT=myorg
export CONJUR_AUTHN_LOGIN=host/myhost.example.com
export CONJUR_AUTHN_API_KEY=sb0ncv1yj9c4w2e9pb1a2s
```

or you could provide these at runtime to your jar:
```sh-session
$ CONJUR_APPLIANCE_URL=https://conjur.myorg.com/api \
  CONJUR_ACCOUNT=myorg \
  CONJUR_AUTHN_LOGIN=host/myhost.example.com \
  CONJUR_AUTHN_API_KEY=sb0ncv1yj9c4w2e9pb1a2s \
  java -jar myConjurClient.jar
```
If you are using a host-based user like this example shows, you will need to add the host
to Conjur with the proper privileges in policy in order to know the appropriate
`CONJUR_AUTHN_LOGIN` and `CONJUR_AUTHN_API_KEY` values.

### System Properties

> This API can also be configured using [Java system properties](https://www.baeldung.com/java-system-get-property-vs-system-getenv).

Reviewer 2: Maybe better to link to official docs? https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/environment/sysprop.html

You can specify any portion (or all) of the configuration values this way. The advantage
of this approach is that the values can be changed dynamically as needed. For example,
this snippet would let your client be able to use the API methods using properties defined
from the CLI:
```sh-session
java -jar myConjurClient.jar \
     -DCONJUR_APPLIANCE_URL=https://conjur.myorg.com/api \
     -DCONJUR_ACCOUNT=myorg \
     -DCONJUR_AUTHN_LOGIN=host/myhost.example.com \
     -DCONJUR_AUTHN_API_KEY=sb0ncv1yj9c4w2e9pb1a2s
```

If you are using Maven, you can also specify these proprerties on the CLI:

```sh-session

> mvn exec:java \

Reviewer 2: If they aren't sensitive, it's probably move common to provide them in the `pom.xml` file itself within `<properties> element.  See [docs](https://maven.apache.org/pom.html#Properties).

Author: True but I didn't have time to investigate if those persist in the created artifact. That part may be for a followup issue.

Reviewer 2: If they are put into the parent project `pom.xml`, they should apply to included compiled, dependencies.  But, still, fine to leave for now.

Author: Fair enough - it's definitely something that could be expanded here (once we have a bit more time on it)

# export CONJUR_AUTHN_URL="<authenticator authn url>"
export CONJUR_AUTHN_TOKEN_FILE="path/to/conjur/authentication/token.json"
```
```java
import net.conjur.api.Conjur;
import net.conjur.api.Token;

Token token = Token.fromEnv();
Conjur conjur = new Conjur(token);
```

## Client APIs

To use the client, you will first create an instance of the client and then call methods
to send requests to the Conjur API. The most common use case is adding and retrieving
a secret from Conjur, so we provide some sample code for this use case below.

### Conjur Client Instance (`net.conjur.api.Conjur`)

The client can be instantiated with any of these methods:
```java
Conjur client = Conjur();
Conjur client = Conjur(String username, String password);
Conjur client = Conjur(String username, String password, String authnUrl);
Conjur client = Conjur(Credentials credentials);
Conjur client = Conjur(Token token);
```

### Variables (`client.variables()`)

#### `void addSecret(String variableId, String secret)`

Sets a variable to a specific value based on its ID.

Example:
```java
import net.conjur.api.Conjur;

Conjur conjur = new Conjur();

> conjur.variables().addSecret(VARIABLE_ID, VARIABLE_VALUE);

Reviewer 2: I assume this should be checking the return value ensure the operation succeeded?

Author: It doesn't return anything - it throws an error on failure (afaik)

Reviewer 2: Ah, so should it be in a try-catch?  No need to do it now if you don't know.  Just feels like our examples should set a good example.

```

_NOTE:_ For a variable to be set, it first needs to be created by a policy in Conjur
otherwise this operation will fail. To do so, you will need a policy that resembles
the one supplied in the [Configuration](#configuration) section above.

#### `String retrieveSecret(String variableId)`

Retireves a variable based on its ID.

Example:
```java
import net.conjur.api.Conjur;

Conjur conjur = new Conjur();
conjur.variables().retrieveSecret("<VARIABLE_ID>");
```

## JAX-RS Implementations

The Conjur API client uses the JAX-RS standard to make requests to the Conjur web services.
In the future we plan to remove this dependency, but for the time being you may need to
change the JAX-RS implementation to conform to your environment and application dependencies.
Conjur API uses Apache CXF by default but for example, in a JBoss server environment, you
should use the RESTlet implementation. You can replace that dependency in `pom.xml` to use an
alternative implementation.

> ## Troubleshooting

Reviewer 2: 🎊

   ```

   _NOTE:_ If you are running Conjur OSS, cannot remember the admin's API key, and you
   have the proper privileges, you can run `conjurctl role retrieve-key <CONJUR_ACCOUNT>:user:admin`
   from the Conjur server container to retrieve the admin's API key.

3. Load the policy into Conjur using the CLI:
   ```sh-session
   $ conjur policy load <PATH_TO_POLICY> <NAME_OF_POLICY>.yml
   ```

   _NOTE:_ For this policy, `<PATH_TO_POLICY>` is root. Meaning, this policy has been
   loaded into the root node of the policy tree. You may want to change this depending
   on your policy tree. For more information about the Conjur policy tree, check out
   [this](https://www.conjur.org/blog/understanding-conjur-policy/) blog post.

4. Once the policy is loaded (for the first time), an ID and API key will be returned
   for the host. It should look something like:
   ```sh-session
$ conjur policy load root policy.yml
Loaded policy 'root'
{
  "created_roles": {
    "myorg:host:<POLICY_ID>/<NAME_OF_HOST>": {
      "id": "myorg:host:<POLICY_ID>/<NAME_OF_HOST>",
      "api_key": "3scdjaz3aq90vn26avdv11s2mf2h2wnwfzw3cbgbja1jspzyc1rdzwqx"
    }
  },
  "version": 1

> }

Reviewer: the content in the code block needs to be indented to render properly

Author: No longer relevant - example scrapped

### System Properties

This API can also be configured using [Java system properties](https://www.baeldung.com/java-system-get-property-vs-system-getenv).
You can specify any portion (or all) of the configuration values this way. The advantage
of this approach is that the values can be changed dynamically as needed. For example,
this snippet would let your client be able to use the API methods using properties defined
from the CLI:
```sh-session
java -jar myConjurClient.jar \
     -DCONJUR_APPLIANCE_URL=https://conjur.myorg.com/api \
     -DCONJUR_ACCOUNT=myorg \
     -DCONJUR_AUTHN_LOGIN=host/myhost.example.com \
     -DCONJUR_AUTHN_API_KEY=sb0ncv1yj9c4w2e9pb1a2s
```

If you are using Maven, you can also specify these proprerties on the CLI:

```sh-session
mvn exec:java \
     -DCONJUR_APPLIANCE_URL=https://conjur.myorg.com/api \
     -DCONJUR_ACCOUNT=myorg \
     -DCONJUR_AUTHN_LOGIN=host/myhost.example.com \
     -DCONJUR_AUTHN_API_KEY=sb0ncv1yj9c4w2e9pb1a2s \
     -Dexec.mainClass="com.myorg.client.App"
```

_NOTE:_ When using properties to configure Conjur APIs, be careful not to persist sensitive
values (like the API key) in source-controlled property files!

> ## Setup Trust Between App and Conjur

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set Up Trust Between App and Conjur
```

for your app to authenticate against a Conjur server. Generally environment variables are
most common but this isn't the only way. In addition to explicitly setting these environment
variables, you can do so by providing [properties](#system-properties), using the Credentials
object, or by providing an Authorization Token. Once you have chosen from one of the
patterns below that works for you, you can now create a `Conjur` class instance values to
access Conjur services and make RESTful API calls.

### Environment Variables

```bash
export CONJUR_ACCOUNT=<account specified during Conjur setup>
export CONJUR_APPLIANCE_URL=<Conjur endpoint URL>
export CONJUR_AUTHN_LOGIN=<user/host identity>
export CONJUR_AUTHN_API_KEY=<user/host API key>
```
```java
import net.conjur.api.Conjur;

// Using environment variables
Conjur conjur = new Conjur();
```

### System Properties

```sh-session
$ java -jar myConjurClient.jar \
     -DCONJUR_ACCOUNT=<account specified during Conjur setup> \
     -DCONJUR_APPLIANCE_URL=<Conjur endpoint URL> \
     -DCONJUR_AUTHN_LOGIN=<user/host identity> \
     -DCONJUR_AUTHN_API_KEY=<user/host API key>
```
```java
import net.conjur.api.Conjur;

> // Using environment variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Using system properties
```
is this correct?

Author: No - but I'll clarify the comment

Conjur conjur = new Conjur();
```

### System Properties with Maven

```sh-session
$ mvn exec:java \
  -DCONJUR_ACCOUNT=<account specified during Conjur setup> \
  -DCONJUR_APPLIANCE_URL=<Conjur endpoint URL> \
  -DCONJUR_AUTHN_LOGIN=<user/host identity> \
  -DCONJUR_AUTHN_API_KEY=<user/host API key> \
  -Dexec.mainClass="com.myorg.client.App"
```
```java
import net.conjur.api.Conjur;

> // Using environment variables

Reviewer: same q
```suggestion
// Using system properties
```

Conjur conjur = new Conjur();
```

### Username and Password

```bash
export CONJUR_ACCOUNT=<account specified during Conjur setup>
export CONJUR_APPLIANCE_URL=<Conjur endpoint URL>
```

```java
import net.conjur.api.Conjur;

// Authenticate using provided username/hostname and password/API key
Conjur conjur = new Conjur('host/host-id', 'api-key');
// or

> Conjur conjur = new Conjur('username', 'password');

Reviewer: does it really work with password or API key? if it's a password, the client would have to know to login first and then authenticate with the API key, right?

maybe that is how it works, but I'm not sure from the method signature that the function would know whether it has a password or API key to make the decision about what to do, and afaik the authenticate route requires an API key

Author: Hmm I'll look into this - there's a confusion I think in some of our "api" vs "password" wording

Author: I don't have a good setup to get a host working but I think the phrasing here is:
`Conjur('host/host-id', 'api-key');` will try logging in with `host` as `user` and `api-key` as password
`Conjur conjur = new Conjur('username', 'password');` will try logging in with `username` as `user` and `password` as `password`.

Reviewer: have you tried it with username / password? if it works, then I suppose this can stay as-is

Author: I've used the admin account (which I suppose has an "api key" even though it's realistically the password(?) ). let me make a real user and set a password to see what's going on here - I might just be confused.

> export CONJUR_AUTHN_TOKEN_FILE="path/to/conjur/authentication/token.json"

Reviewer: I think for completeness this should have the items above as well
```suggestion
export CONJUR_ACCOUNT=<account specified during Conjur setup>
export CONJUR_APPLIANCE_URL=<Conjur endpoint URL>
# Optional path for non-standard authenticators (e.g. `$CONJUR_APPLIANCE_URL/authn-k8s/myauthenticator`)
# export CONJUR_AUTHN_URL="<authenticator authn url>"
export CONJUR_AUTHN_TOKEN_FILE="path/to/conjur/authentication/token.json"
```

```
```java
import net.conjur.api.Conjur;
import net.conjur.api.Token;

Token token = Token.fromEnv();
Conjur conjur = new Conjur(token);
```

## Client APIs

> Most usage is done by creating a Client instance and then invoking the API on it. The
> most common use case is adding and retrieving a secret from Conjur.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the client, you will first create an instance of the client and then call methods to send requests to the
Conjur API. The most common use case is adding and retrieving a secret from Conjur, so we provide some
sample code for this use case below.
```
